== Intro

`c-xrefactory` is a software tool and a project aiming at restoring
the sources of that old, but very useful, tool to a state where it can
be enhanced and be the foundation for a highly capable refactoring
browser.

It _is_ currently in working condition, so you can use it. For
information about that, see the
https://github.com/thoni56/c-xrefactory/blob/main/README.md[README.md].

=== Caution

As indicated by the
https://github.com/thoni56/c-xrefactory/blob/main/README.md[README.md],
this is a long term restoration project. So anything you find in this
document might be old, incorrect, guesses, temporary holders for
thoughts or theories. Or actually true and useful.

Especially names of variables, functions and modules is prone to
change as understanding of them increases. They might also be
refactored into something entirently different.

As this point this document is just a collection of unstructured
thougths, guesses, historic anecdotes and ideas. For example, the
previously existing, and also unstructured, wiki pages have just been
pasted in here in an attempt to collect everything in a single
document. Perhaps that will make it possible to "refactor" the
information into something actually useful.

The last part of this document is an Archive where completely obsolete
descriptions have been moved for future software archeologists to
find.

=== Background

You will find some background about the project in the
https://github.com/thoni56/c-xrefactory/blob/main/README.md[README.md].

This document tries to collect the knowledge and understanding about
how `c-xrefactory` actually works, plans for making it better, both in
terms of working with the source, its structure and its features.

Hopefully over time this will be the design documentation of
`c-xrefactory`, which, at that time, will be a fairly well structured
and useful piece of software.

=== Goal

Ultimately `c-xrefactory` could become _the_ refactoring browser for C
(but probably not for Java), the one that everybody uses. As suggested
by @tajmone in GitHub issue #39, by switching to a general protocol,
we could possibly plug this in to many editors.

However, to do that we need to refactor out the protocol parts. And to
do that we need a better structure, and to dare to change that, we
need to understand more of the intricacies of this beast, and we need
tests. So the normal legacy code catch 22 applies...

Test coverage is starting to look good, coming up to about 80% at the
time of writing this. But that is mostly "application level"
execution, rather than actual tests.
