.\" Copyright (c) 1997-2004 Marian Vittek, Bratislava.
.TH XREF 1 \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
xref \- A cross referencing tool for C and Java.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
.TP
.B xref
.RB "[\|" "options"\&\|]
.I infile 
.RB "[\|" "\... infile"\&\|]
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH TYPICAL INVOCATION FORMS
.TP
.B xref
.I -p 
<project>
.TP
.B xref
.I -update -p 
<project>
.TP
.B xref
.I -html -p 
<project>
.TP
.B xref
.I -update -html -p 
<project>
.TP
.TP 
.B xref
<srcdir>
.TP
.B xref 
.I -html
<srcdir>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Xref is a C and Java cross-referencing tool. 
It parses input files noting all symbol's
definitions and usages. If not invoked with the
.I -html
option its output is a list of symbols, together 
with positions of declarations, definition and all usages.
Output is written to the file specified by the 
.I -refs
option. Xref's cross references are destinated to be read by
.I xref
itself or by on-line editing macros. Programming language in which an 
input file is written is inferred
from file suffix as follows: .java for a Java language file, .y 
for a YACC (and C) input file, .jar for a Java archive file and finally
all other suffixes are interpreted as C input files.

When invoked with the 
.I -html
option xref  does not produce the cross reference file. Instead it
reads an existing cross reference file and then it
converts input files into a HTML format browsable by standard Internet
browsers. In those files each symbol is linked to its definition.
If options '-htmlgxlist' and '-htmllxlist' is present
then each definition is linked to a
list of all symbol usages. 
HTML files are written in directory hierarchy 
specified by the 
.I -htmlroot
option.

.SH WILD CHARACTERS 

Following wild characters can be used when specifying input files: '*'
expands to any (possibly empty) string; '?' expands to any single
character and '[...]' pair expands to one of enclosed
characters. Ranges of characters can be included between [ and ], so
for example [a-z] matches any lower case letter, [0-9] matches any
digit, as it is usual in standard shell expressions. If the first
character following the [ is a ^ then the sense of expansion is
inversed, for example [^0-9] expands to any non-digit
character. Options -I, -classpath, -sourcepath and -javadocpath also
accept wild characters. Be carefull when using wild characters in those options
as they can considerably slow down the task.

.SH NOTE
Xref accepts many options, however except the
.I -p
,
.I -update
and
.I -html
options, it is not recommended to write them directly on the command line. 
The standard way of passing options to xref is configuration file named
.I .xrefrc
placed in user's home directory. Options stored in the ${HOME}/.xrefrc 
file are read at each xref invocation. Storing command line options into 
this file is the only way how you can pass project depending
options to xref when invoked from Emacs.

Order of options on command line is important. Options are processed in order
in which they are written.

.SH OPTIONS
Here is the table of command options accepted by xref.
.TP
.B \-p project
At the beginning of the execution, read and process
options from the section 
.I project
of the 
.I .xrefrc
configuration file. This option is used to abstract from concrete
options and file names when using xref from command line and from several
IDEs.
For more info, see the .xrefrc file documentation.
.TP
.B \-r
This option is default now, so you do not need to enter it. 
It causes that if a directory is entered as 
.I infile
then all files from the directory having the suffix '.c' or '.java'
are processed (note that it is useless to process the '.h' suffixes as
they are processed when included by a '.c' file). 
Subdirectories are recursively searched. This option is obsolete now.
.TP
.B \-\-r
Do not process directories recursively. This is inverse option to -r option.
.TP
.B \-prune paths
When recursively searching for input files do not enter into directories in paths. Paths
can be either a simple name, an absolute path, or a ':' (';' under MS-Windows)
separated list of both. For example -prune CVS:/project/backup will forbids scanning of
the directory /project/backup as well as all directories named CVS.
.TP
.B \-I dir
Add the directory
.I dir
to the end of list of
directories inspected when looking for an include file. 
If specified more than one `\|\c
.B \-I\c
\&\|' option,
the directories are scanned in left-to-right order. If the directory is specified
using relative path, it is considered relative to the currently
parsed file directory.
.TP
.BI "\-D" "name"\c
\&
Predefine \c
.I name\c
\& as a macro, with definition `\|\c
.B 1\c
\&\|'.
.TP
.BI "\-D" "name" = definition
\&
Predefine \c
.I name\c
\& as a macro, with definition \c
.I definition\c
\&.
.TP
.B \-resetIncludeDirs
This option removes all directories from include directory list (including
the default include directories like /usr/include). 
This option should be used before any -I option.
.TP
.B \-cacheincludes
This option causes that xref task will keep readed include files in memory
and reuse them when processing next files.
This can improve time performance when many source files are using
common header files. Especially if those header files are read
over network or from a slow drive. It will increase space requirements, 
however.
.TP
.B \-jdkclasspath paths
This option defines path to standard runtime library (rt.jar) of your Java
installation. If you are using JDK from Sun Microsystems, then
xref task should be able to infer this path from PATH and JAVA_HOME environment
variables. Otherwise you will need to specify it explicitly using
-jdkclasspath option.
The syntax of paths is the same as for the -classpath option.
For example you can use the '-jdkclasspath /usr/local/jdk1.2.2/jre/lib/rt.jar' 
settting for most Java 1.2 installations.
.TP
.B \-classpath paths
This option specifies the classpath used for finding Java .class files.
This option overrides the value of the environment variable CLASSPATH.
See also the '-jdkclasspath' and '-sourcepath' option.
.TP
.B \-sourcepath paths
This option specifies paths where sources of Java packages and classes
are searched. This option overrides the value of the environment 
variable SOURCEPATH.
If not present the current classpath is used as default. The 'sourcepath'
value is used for finding source files in the
same way as 'classpath' is used for finding .class compiled files.
When loading a class having both source and class available then the
time of last modification of both files is examined and the class is
loaded from the newer file. 
.TP
.B \-javadocpath=<path>
Specifies paths where Javadoc documentation is stored in 
local file system. Several paths can be specified, 
the syntax is the same as for classpath value. When looking for a 
javadoc documentation, xref will first search files on paths
specified by -javadocpath, if not found and the package documentation
is available (-javadocavailable option) the URL specified 
by -javadocurl is taken.
See also -javadocurl, -javadocavailable and -htmlgenjavadoclink options.
.TP
.B \-packages
This option allows to enter package names instead of input file
names on command line.
.TP
.B \-source <version>
Specifies version of Java in which sources are written. Currently available values 
are: "1.3", "1.4" and "auto". Version "auto" will cause that xref determines
Java version automatically from Java runtime library. Version "1.4" means 
that 'assert' command is allowed and 'assert' string
is considered as keyword, so you can't have any method or variable of this
name. Default value is "1.3".
.TP
.B \-java1.4
This option is obsolete, use -source instead.
With this option sources are considered to be written in Java version 1.4 (or higher).
.TP
.B \-refs file
This option specifies the file where the cross-references
are stored. If the 
.I -refnum=n
option is present then the 
.I file
indicates the directory where cross-reference
files are stored.
.TP
.B "\-refnum=<number>"
This option specifies how many cross reference files will be generated.
When 
.I <number>
== 1, the name specified by the '-refs' option is directly
the name of the cross reference file. 
When 
.I <number>
> 1 then the name specified by the '-refs' option is 
interpreted as directory where cross reference files are stored.
You should specify the 
.I <number>
proportionally to the size
of your project. 
Do not forget to delete the old cross-reference file if
you change the -refnum from 1 to a bigger value.
.TP
.B "\-refalphahash"
Split references into 28 files depending on the first letter of the
symbol. This option is useful when generating HTML form, because
it makes easy to find cross references for given symbol name.
This option excludes using of the -refnum option. 
.TP
.B "\-refalpha2hash"
Split references into 28*28 files depending on the first two letters of the
symbol. This option is useful when generating HTML form, because
it makes easy to find cross references for given symbol name.
This option excludes using of the -refnum option. 
.TP
.B "\-exactpositionresolve"
This option controls how symbols which are local to a compilation
unit, but usually used in several files, are linked together. 
This concerns C language symbols like macros, structures and their records, etc.
Such symbols have no link names passed to linker (like global functions have).
This creates a problem how 'xref' can link together (for example) structures
of the same name used in different compilation units.
If the -exactpositionresolve option is present then such symbols
are considered to be equals if their definitions come from the
same header file and they are defined at the same position in the 
file (in other words if this is
a single definition in the source code). Otherwise two symbols
are linked together when they have the same name.
The '-exactpositionresolve' is very powerful feature
because it allows perfect resolution of browsed symbol and allows you
to safely rename one of two symbols if a name conflict occurs.
However this option also
causes that you will need to update cross reference file after
each modification of a header file (as the cross-reference file stores
information about position of the macro definition).
Updating may be too annoying in normal use when you often edit header files.
In general, this option is recommended when browsing
source code which is not under active development.

.TP
.B -noincluderefresh
This is a particular option importing only when xref task is used
from Emacs. It
causes that xref task does not update
include references when used by an Emacs macro. This avoids
memory overflow for huge 
projects or for
projects including huge header files (for example when including
Microsoft windows API headers).

.TP
.B "\-update"
This option represents standard way of how to keep cross-reference file
up to date. It causes that
modification time of all input files as well as those listed 
in the existing cross-reference file are checked and only those
having newer modification time than existing cross-reference file
are scheduled to be processed. Also all files which includes (by
Cpp pre-processor) those files are scheduled to be processed.
.TP
.B "\-fastupdate"
The same as -update with the difference that files which include
modified files are not scheduled to be processed. Unless you 
are using also '-exactpositionresolve' option this is 
enough for most references to be correctly updated.
.TP
.B "\-fastupdate"
Fast update, force update of input files. This option is like the 
.I -update
option with the difference that input files entered on command
line are always reparsed (not depending on their modification time).
.TP
.B "\-set <name> <value>"
The xref task provide a simple environment management. The -set option
associates the string <name> to the string <value>. The value can be 
then accessed by enclosing the name in ${ }.

If an option contains name of previously defined variable enclosed in ${ and }, then
the name (together with encolsing ${}) is replaced by the 
corresponding value. Variables can be hence used to abbreviate
options or to predefine repeated parts of options. 
Following predefined variables can be used in order to introduce problematic
characters into options: 'nl' for newline; 'pc' for percent; 'dl' for dollar 
and 'dq' for double-quotes. Also all environment variables taken from
operating system (like PATH, HOME, ...) are 'inherited' and can be used
when enclosed in ${ }. For example ${PATH} string will be replaced 
by the value of PATH environment variable.

Another usage of -set option is to define project depending
values used by Emacs macros. Emacs can retrieve value of an
environmnet variable by sending '-get <name>' request to xref task.
Emacs is currently using following variables to get project depending
settings: "compilefile", "compiledir", "compileproject", "run1", "run2", ... , "run5", "runthis"
and "run". Those variables are used by 'Emacs IDE' macros to retrieve commands
for compilation and running of project program.
For example an option: -set run "echo will run now ${nl}a.out"
will define run command to print 'will run now' message and then execute 
a.out command. When a command string is enclosed in quotas it 
can contain newline characters to separate sequence of commands.
For more info about compile and run commands see on-line Emacs help of 
the corresponding Xrefactory macros.
.TP
.B "\-brief"
The output of cross referencing will be in compact form, still readable by
.I xref
but rather difficult for human reader. This option is default now.
.TP
.B "\-nobrief"
The output of cross referencing will contain "comment" records
for human readers.
.TP
.B "\-no_enum"
Don't cross reference enumerators.
.TP
.B "\-no_mac"
Don't cross reference macros.
.TP
.B "\-no_type"
Don't cross-reference user defined types.
.TP
.B "\-no_str"
Don't cross reference structure records.
.TP
.B "\-no_local"
Don't cross reference function arguments and local variables.
.TP
.B "\-no_cfrefs"
Don't get cross references from class files. This can decrease the size of
your Tag file. However, because informations about class hierarchy are taken 
mainly from class files this option may causes that showed class hierarchies
will be incomplete.
.TP
.B \-html
Causes xref to not produce the cross reference file. Instead it reads
a previously generated cross reference file, then it proceeds input files
creating browsable files in the HTML format.
.TP
.B \-htmlroot=dir 
Write output HTML files into directory hierarchy starting by the
.I dir.
This option is meaningful only with combination with 
.I -html
option.
.TP
.B \-d dir
Equivalent to -htmlroot=dir.
.TP
.B \-htmltab=number
When generating HTML files, set the tabulator to
.I number.
.TP
.B \-htmllinenums
When converting source files into HTML format generate 
line numbers before source code.
.TP
.B \-htmlnocolors
When converting source files into HTML format do not generate 
color highlighting of keywords, commentaries and preprocessor
directives.
.TP
.B \-htmlgxlist
When converting source files into HTML format generate lists of all 
usages for each 
.I global
symbol. 
.TP
.B \-htmllxlist
When converting source files into HTML format generate lists of all 
usages for each 
.I local
symbol. 
.TP
.B \-htmldirectx
When converting source files into HTML format, link the first character
of a symbol directly to its cross references.
.TP
.B \-htmlfunseparate
Causes that HTML files will contain horizontal bar separating function
definitions.
.TP
.B \-htmlcutpath=<path>
This option causes that the output files from the 
.I path
directory are not stored with full path name under -htmlroot directory. 
Rather the 
.I path 
is cut from the full file name. Xref accepts several '-htmlcutpath' 
options. On MS-DOS (QNX) system, the path should be an absolute path
but without drive (node) specification.
.TP
.B \-htmlcutcwd
equals '-htmlcutpath=${CWD}' cutting current working directory path
from html paths.
.TP
.B \-htmlcutsourcepaths
cut also all Java source paths defined by SOURCEPATH environment variable
or by -sourcepath option.
.TP
.B \-htmlcutsuffix
Cut language suffix from generated html file names. With this option xref
will generate files Class.html instead of Class.java.html (or file.html
instead of file.c.html for C language).
.TP
.B \-htmllinenumlabel=<label>
Set the label generated before line number in html documents. For example
-htmllinenumlabel=line will generate line<n> labels compatible with
links generated by javadoc version 1.4.
.TP
.B \-htmllinkcolor=<color>
This option specifies the color in which links of the HTML document will
appear. For example '-htmllinkcolor=black' or '-htmllinkcolor=#000000'
causes that links will be black.
.TP
.B \-htmllinenumcolor=<color>
This option specifies the color of line numbers for generated HTML.
For example '-htmllinenumcolor=black' or '-htmllinenumcolor=#000000'
causes that line numbers will always be black. This option is meaningful
only in combination with -htmllinenums option.
.TP
.B \-htmlnounderline
This option causes that links in the HTML document will not be underlined
(if your browser support styles).
.TP
.B \-htmlgenjavadoclinks
When generating html generate links to Javadoc documentation for symbols
without definition reference. 
.TP
.B \-encoding=<type>
This option specifies international encoding of input files. Available 
values for <type> 
are 'default', 'european', 'euc', 'sjis', 'utf', 'utf-8', 'utf-16', 'utf-16le' 
and 'utf-16be'. The 'default' value results in standard ASCII (and 'utf-8') 
characters. If your files contain, for example, 8-bit european characters, then you 
should include -encoding=european into your project setting.
.TP
.B \-javadocurl=<url> \-htmljavadocpath=<url>
Specifies URL where existing non-local Javadoc documentation is stored. 
Both options are equivalent, the -htmljavadocpath is obsolete.
The default
is "-javadocurl=http://java.sun.com/j2se/1.3/docs/api".
It is supposed to contain Javadoc documentation of packages 
for which you do not have source code nor local Javadoc
documentation, but the documentation is available on the Internet.
See also -javadocpath, -javadocavailable and -htmlgenjavadoclink options.
.TP
.B \-javadocavailable=<packs> \-htmljavadocavailable=<packs>
Both options are equivalent, the -htmljavadocavailable is obsolete.
The option specifies packages having Javadoc documentation placed
on the URL specified by the -javadocurl option.
The <packs> string is a list of packages separated by ':' sign. For example
correct setting for standard jdk is: "-javadocavailable=java.applet:java.awt:java.beans:java.io:java.lang:java.math:java.net:java.rmi:java.security:java.sql:java.text:java.util:javax.accessibility:javax.swing:org.omg.CORBA:org.omg.CosNaming".
See also -javadocpath, -javadocurl and -htmlgenjavadoclink options.
.TP
.B \-htmlzip=<command>
This option causes that the command
.I command
is called after having created any HTML file. The character '!' included 
in the 
.I command
has special meaning and is replaced by the name of the last generated
HTML file. For example 
.I """-htmlzip=gzip -f !"""
option causes that all
generated HTML files will be zipped. See also '-htmllinksuffix' option.
.TP
.B \-htmllinksuffix=<suf>
This option causes that whenever a hypertext link to a file xxx should be 
generated then in reality a link to the file xxx.suf is generated. This
option is meaningful mainly with the '-htmlzip' option. For example
the combination 
.I """-htmlzip=gzip -f !""" -htmllinksuffix=.gz 
causes
that all generated HTML files will be compressed and the links are
correctly generated to those compressed files.
.TP
.B \-optinclude file (or \-stdop file)
This option causes that the file `\|\c
.I file\c
\&\|' is read and scanned for further options. When used in an .xrefrc file
this options includes options defined in
.I file.
However, if the included file is modified while xref task is running
then xref is unable to automatically reload new options.
If you use -optinclude
(-stdop) option, and you modify included file, you will need to kill
and restart xref server task in order that changes take effect.
.TP
.B \-no_stdop
This option forbids
the search of standard option files '.xrefrc' and 'Xref.opt'.
.TP
.B -mf<n>
This option sets the memory factor for cross-references. The larger is the
memory factor, the larger is the memory reserved to store cross-references
and so xref does not need to swap references on disk so frequently. The default
value of 
.I n
is 1. For example the '-mf10' option causes that the memory used for 
cross-references will be increased by the factor of 10. This option can be
used only as command line option. If you use it inside the ~/.xrefrc file
it has no effect.
.TP
.B "\-pass<n>"
Strictly speaking this is not xref option. It is used in the .xrefrc
configuration file to describe how to process source files in multiple passes.
Multiple passes are necessary if you need to process your C sources
for several initial macro settings. For more informations about this option
read the 'xrefrc' manual page.
.TP
.B "\-keep_old"
This option is obsolete. It is kept for compatibility reasons only.
It is recommended to use multiple passes options of the '.xrefrc'
file instead. The '-keep_old' option causes that
the output of cross-referencing is added to 
existing references from the file specified by the 
.I -refs
option. All old references of the reference file are kept.
.TP
.B "\-no_cpp_comment"
When scanning input files, do not consider the string `\|\c
.I //\c
\&\|' as beginning of a comment ended by end of line.
.TP
.B "\-csuffixes=<suffixes>"
This option defines list of suffixes (separated by ':' character under Unix and ';' under MS-Windows)
for C source files. Files with those suffixes will be inserted
into Tag file and parsed with Xrefactory's C parser. Suffixes should not start by the '.'
dot character which is considered as suffix separator automatically. For example
suffixes "c:tc" mean that files ending by ".c" or ".tc" strings are considered as C input
files.
.TP
.B "\-javasuffixes=<suffixes>"
This option defines list of suffixes (separated by ':' character under Unix and ';' under MS-Windows)
for Java source files. Files with those suffixes will be inserted
into Tag file and parsed with Xrefactory's Java parser. Suffixes should not start by the '.'
dot character which is consider as suffix separator automatically. 
For example, the default value under MS-Windows is -javasuffixes=java;JAV.
.TP
.B "\-filescasesensitive" "\-filescaseunsensitive"
This option controls whether xref is considering two file names differing only
in cases as the same file or not. By default file names are considered as case
sensitive. Setting names to be case unsensitive may avoid confusion
in C #include directives under MS-Windows system.
.TP
.B "\-errors"
Report all error messages.
.TP
.B "\-noconversion \-crconversion \-crlfconversion"
Options controling end of line character conversions. By default xref automatically 
determines which character sequence should be considered as end-of-line. Those
options force xref to consider respectively linefeed (-noconversion), return (-crconversion),
or return followed by linefeed (-crlfconversion) as beginning of next line. Those
cases corresponds respectively to Unix, Mac OS and Windows systems.
.TP
.B "-debug"
Produce debugging output tracing execution and
determining possible source of errors. This option is very usefull if
some reactions of xref are inadequate on some input. In this case you can
run xref with given input file and -debug option. In the produced output
you can search for error messages and discover the origin of problems.

.SH "MORE INFO"
.RB http://www.xref-tech.com
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.RB xrefrc(5),
